# Feng Huihua
- detail_url: https://me-english.bit.edu.cn/people/facultydept/energype2/xs6/b126153.htm
- school: Mechanical Engineering
- page_count: 1

## Basic Information
- Name: Feng Huihua
- Editor： SME
- Department listing: Energy and Power Engineering
- Faculty group: The Research Center of Power Machinery
- NAME: Feng Huihua
- TITLE: Professor / Ph.D
- SCHOOL: School of Mechanical Engineering
- DEPARTMENT: Energy and Power Engineering
- OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 307,The Research Center of Power Machinery
- POST CODE: 100081
- TELEPHONE: 010-68911062
- E-MAIL ADDRESS: fenghh@bit.edu.cn

## Research and Teaching Interest
- Prof. Huihua FENG’s research interests cover the technology of Free Piston Linear Generator (FPLG) and NVH control of Power-train. He has got nearly 30 projects as Prime Investigator or Co-prime Investigator sponsored by NSFC,MIIT and industrial companies. He had published more than 80 academic papers,and got more than 20 patents. He lectures several courses such as ‘Internal Combustion Engine Design’,‘Theory of Mechanical Vibration (Delivered by English)’,‘Energy system and design’.

## Selected Publications and Patents
- Representative papers：
- [1] Mou,Xiaolong; Feng,Huihua*; Zuo,Zhengxing; Yang,Guichun. Application discussion of perturbed force approach in modal expansion. Journal of Vibration and Shock,v 37,n 5,p 228-233 and 239,March 15,2018. [2] Guo,Chendong; Song,Yu; Feng,Huihua*; Zuo,Zhengxing; Jia,Boru; Zhang,Ziwei; Roskilly,AP. Effect of fuel injection characteristics on the performance of a free-piston diesel engine linear generator: CFD simulation and experimental results. Energy Conversion and Management,v 160,p 302-312,15 March 2018. [3] Zhang,Ziwei; Guo,Chendong; Song,Yu; Feng,Huihua*; Zuo,Zhengxing; Jia,Boru; Roskilly,AP. Research on the engine combustion characteristics of a free-piston diesel engine linear generator. Energy Conversion and Management,v 168,p 629-638,15 July 2018. [4] Li,Yanxiao; Zuo,Zhengxing; Feng,Huihua. Structural Heat-Transfer Characteristics of Free Piston Engine. Transactions of CSICE (Chinese Society for Internal Combustion Engines),v 36,n 1,p 90-95,January 25. [5] Jia,Boru; Zuo,Zhengxing; Smallbone,Andrew; Feng,Huihua; Roskilly,Anthony Paul. A decoupled design parameter analysis for free-piston engine generators. Energies,v 10,n 4,April 4,2017. [6] Jia,Boru; Smallbone,Andrew; Mikalsen,Rikard; Feng,Huihua; Zuo,Zhengxing; Roskilly,Anthony Paul. Disturbance analysis of a free-piston engine generator using a validated fast-response numerical model. Applied Energy,v 185,p 440-451,January 1,2017. [7] Yuan,Chenheng; Feng,Huihua; He,Yituan. An experimental research on the combustion and heat release characteristics of a free-piston diesel engine generator. Fuel,v 188,p 390-400,January 15,2017. [8] Yuan,Chenheng; Xu,Jing; Feng,Huihua. In-cylinder heat transfer and gas motion of a free-piston diesel engine generator. Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers,Part A: Journal of Power and Energy,v 231,n 8,p 739-752,December 1,2017. [9] Liu,Chunhui; Zuo,Zhengxing; Feng,Huihua. Skeletal and reduced chemical kinetic mechanisms for methyl butanoate autoignition. Energy and Fuels,v 31,n 1,p 891-895,January 19,2017. [10] Yuan,Chenheng; Xu,Jing; Feng,Huihua; He,Yituan. Friction characteristics of piston rings in a free-piston engine generator. International Journal of Engine Research,v 18,n 9,p 871-885,January 1,2017. [11] Wang,J.F.; Feng,H.H.*; Mou,X.L.; Huang,Y.X. Noise optimization of a regenerative automotive fuel pump. IOP Conference Series: Materials Science and Engineering,v 187,n 1,March 23,2017,2016 2nd International Conference on Mechanical and Aeronautical Engineering,ICMAE 2016. [12] Song,Yu; Feng,Hui-Hua*; Li,Lin-Ke; Zuo,Zheng-Xing. Study on the In-Cylinder Flow Process of Diesel Free-Piston Linear Generator. Transaction of Beijing Institute of Technology,v 37,n 3,p 244-249,March 1,2017. [13] Guo,Chendong; Feng,Huihua*; Jia,Boru; Zuo,Zhengxing; Guo,Yuyao; Roskilly,Tony. Research on the operation characteristics of a free-piston linear generator: Numerical model and experimental results. Energy Conversion and Management,v 131,p 32-43,January 1,2017. [14] Miao,Yuxi; Zuo,Zhengxing; Feng,Huihua; Guo,Chendong; Song,Yu; Jia,Boru; Guo,Yuyao. Research on the Combustion Characteristics of a Free-Piston Gasoline Engine Linear Generator during the Stable Generating Process. Energies,v 9,n 8,2016. [15] Zuo,Zheng-Xing; Xu,Da-Tao; Feng,Hui-Hua. Experimental study on compression stroke characteristics of free-piston engine generator. Journal of Beijing Institute of Technology,v 24,n 3,p 321-327,September 1,2015. [16] Feng,Huihua; Guo,Chendong; Jia,Boru; Zuo,Zhengxing; Guo,Yuyao; Roskilly,Tony. Research on the intermediate process of a free-piston linear generator from cold start-up to stable operation: Numerical model and experimental results. Energy Conversion and Management,v 122,p 153-164,August 15,2016. [17] Jia,Boru; Smallbone,Andrew; Zuo,Zhengxing; Feng,Huihua; Roskilly,Anthony Paul. Design and simulation of a two- or four-stroke free-piston engine generator for range extender applications. Energy Conversion and Management,v 111,p 289-298,March 1,2016. [18] Yuan,Chenheng; Feng,Huihua; He,Yituan; Xu,Jing Combustion characteristics analysis of a free-piston engine generator coupling with dynamic and scavenging. Energy,v 102,p 637-649,May 01,2016. [19] Wang,Jifu; Feng,Huihua*; Zuo,Zhengxing; Yang,Guichun; Gao,Na. Balance characteristics and balance schemes of intensified V6 diesel engine. Transactions of CSICE (Chinese Society for Internal Combustion Engines),v 34,n 5,p 456-462,September 25,2016. [20] Feng,Huihua; Guo,Chendong; Yuan,Chenheng; Guo,Yuyao; Zuo,Zhengxing; Roskilly,Anthony Paul; Jia,Boru. Research on combustion process of a free piston diesel linear generator. Applied Energy,v 161,p 395-403,January 01,2016. [21] Yuan,Chenheng; Feng,Huihua*; He,Yituan; Xu,Jing. Motion characteristics and mechanisms of a resonance starting process in a free-piston diesel engine generator. Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers,Part A: Journal of Power and Energy,v 230,n 2,p 206-218,March 1,2016. [22] Jia,Boru; Smallbone,Andrew; Feng,Huihua; Tian,Guohong; Zuo,Zhengxing; Roskilly,AP. A fast response free-piston engine generator numerical model for control applications. Applied Energy,v 162,p 321-329,January 15,2016. [23] Yuan,Chen-Heng; Feng,Hui-Hua*; Wang,Meng-Qiu; Zuo,Zheng-Xing. Sealing characteristics of piston ring in a free-piston diesel engine for linear alternator. Chinese Internal Combustion Engine Engineering,v 36,n 5,p 151-155,October 15,2015. [24] Jia,Boru; Mikalsen,Rikard; Smallbone,Andrew; Zuo,Zhengxing; Feng,Huihua; Roskilly,Anthony Paul. Piston motion control of a free-piston engine generator: A new approach using cascade control. Applied Energy,v 179,p 1166-1175,October 1,2016. [25] Jia,Boru; Tian,Guohong; Feng,Huihua; Zuo,Zhengxing; Roskilly,AP. An experimental investigation into the starting process of free-piston engine generator. Applied Energy,v 157,p 798-804,2015. [26] Jia,Boru; Zuo,Zhengxing; Feng,Huihua; Tian,Guohong; Smallbone,Andrew; Roskilly,AP. Effect of closed-loop controlled resonance based mechanism to start free piston engine generator: Simulation and test results. Applied Energy,v 164,p 532-539,February 15,2016. [27] Feng,Huihua; Song,Yu; Zuo,Zhengxing; Shang,Jiao; Wang,Yaodong; Roskilly,Anthony Paul. Stable operation and electricity generating characteristics of a single-cylinder free piston engine linear generator: Simulation and experiments. Energies,v 8,n 2,p 765-785,2015. [28] Xu,Hongyu; Feng,Huihua*; Song,Yu; Zuo,Zhengxing. Heat release rate of FPEG based on the piston motion. Transactions of CSICE (Chinese Society for Internal Combustion Engines),v 33,n 5,p 413-419,September 25,2015. [29] Yuan,Chen-Heng; Feng,Hui-Hua; Wang,Meng-Qiu; Zuo,Zheng-Xing. Combustion characteristics of free-piston gasoline engine for linear alternator. Journal of Jilin University (Engineering and Technology Edition),v 45,n 1,p 127-132,January 1,2015. [30] Yuan,Chen-Heng; Feng,Hui-Hua; Wang,Meng-Qiu; Zuo,Zheng-Xing. Study on starting characteristics of free-piston gasoline engine for linear alternator. Chinese Internal Combustion Engine Engineering,v 36,n 1,p 87-91,February 15,2015. [31] Xu,Datao; Feng,Huihua; Yuan,Chenheng; Zuo,Zhengxing. Friction behaviour of piston ring for free-piston engine generator. Journal of Xi'an Jiaotong University,v 47,n 3,p 64-68,March 2013. [32] Dong,Hong-Quan; Feng,Hui-Hua; Dong,Biao; Wu,Mi-Mi; Mou,Xiao-Long. Dynamic modeling and cavitation tendency analysis of cylinder liner considering the effects of moving loads. Transactions of CSICE (Chinese Society for Internal Combustion Engines),v 31,n 5,p 467-472,September 2013. [33] Xu,Datao; Zuo,Zhengxing; Feng,Huihua; Tian,Chunlai. Stable compression ratio control for free-piston engine generator. Journal of Xi'an Jiaotong University,v 48,n 5,p 56-60+88,May 2014. [34] Lu,Shouwei; Feng,Huihua; Zuo,Zhengxing. NVH improvement of vehicle powertrain. SAE Technical Papers,v 8,2012,SAE 2012 Commercial Vehicle Engineering Congress,COMVEC 2012. [35] Tian,Chunlai; Feng,Huihua; Shang,Jiao; Zuo,Zhengxing. Energy conversion and transfer process of free-piston engine generator. Transactions of the Chinese Society of Agricultural Machinery,v 43,n 11,p 11-14,November 2012. [36] Xin,Zhenfang; Zuo,Zhengxing; Feng,Huihua. The polynomial nonlinearities analysis based on the second-order normal form method. International Conference on Noise and Vibration Engineering 2012,ISMA 2012,including USD 2012: International Conference on Uncertainty in Structure Dynamics,v 4,p 2591-2600,2012. [37] Tian,Chun-Lai; Feng,Hui-Hua; Zuo,Zheng-Xing. Dynamics of a small-scale single free piston engine generator. Journal of Beijing Institute of Technology,v 20,n SUPPL.2,p 128-134,December 2011. [38] Lu,Shouwei; Feng,Huihua; Zuo,Zhengxing; Kang,Liyun; Yu,Bo. NVH optimization of vehicle powertrain. Lecture Notes in Electrical Engineering,v 201 LNEE,n VOL. 13,p 141-149,2013,Proceedings of the FISITA 2012 World Automotive Congress. [39] Jia,Boru; Zuo,Zhengxing; Feng,Huihua; Tian,Guohong; Roskilly,AP. Development Approach of a Spark-Ignited Free-Piston Engine Generator. SAE Technical Papers,v 2014-October,October 13,2014,SAE 2014 International Powertrains,Fuels and Lubricants Meeting,FFL 2014. [40] Mao,Jinlong; Zuo,Zhengxing; Li,Wen; Feng,Huihua. Multi-dimensional scavenging analysis of a free-piston linear alternator based on numerical simulation. Applied Energy,v 88,n 4,p 1140-1152,April 2011. [41] Lu,Shouwei; Feng,Huihua; Mou,Xiaolong; Zuo,Zhengxing. The vibration response analysis of coupling system and its experimental validation based on the SEA method. Advanced Materials Research,v 479-481,p 1314-1317,2012. [42] Xin,Zhenfang; Zuo,Zhengxing; Feng,Huihua; Wagg,David; Neild,Simon. Higher order accuracy analysis of the second-order normal form method. Nonlinear Dynamics,v 70,n 3,p 2175-2185,November 2012. [43] Feng,Hui-Hua; Zhang,Zhi-Yuan; Lu,Shou-Wei; Zuo,Zheng-Xing. Prediction of a V-8 diesel engine's structural radiated noise and research of important parameters' effects on the engine's acoustic behaviors. Journal of Beijing Institute of Technology,v 20,n 3,p 365-371,September 2011. [44] Feng,Hui-Hua; Dong,Biao; Shang,Jiao; Lu,Shou-Wei; Kang,Li-Yun. Investigation into the influence of transmission parameter variation on the first gear pair loading conditions. Transaction of Beijing Institute of Technology,v 31,n 2,p 131-135+143,February 2011. [45] Tian,Chunlai; Feng,Huihua; Zuo,Zhengxing. Oscillation characteristic of single free piston engine generator. Advanced Materials Research,v 383-390,p 1873-1878,2012. [46] Mao,Jinlong; Zuo,Zhengxing; Feng,Huihua. Parameters coupling designation of diesel free-piston linear alternator. Applied Energy,v 88,n 12,p 4577-4589,December 2011. [47] Yuan,Chenheng; Feng,Huihua; Xu,Datao; Zuo,Zhengxing. Parameters coupling analysis on stable operation process of free-piston engine generator. Transactions of the Chinese Society for Agricultural Machinery,v 44,n 7,p 1-5,July 2013. [48] Feng,Hui-Hua; Zhao,Zhi-Fang; Zuo,Zheng-Xing; Lu,Shou-Wei. Experimental and numerical analysis of an air cleaner's acoustic performance. Journal of Beijing Institute of Technology,v 20,n 4,p 478-482,December 2011. [49] Tian,Chunlai; Feng,Huihua; Zuo,Zhengxing. Load following controller for single free-piston generator. Applied Mechanics and Materials,v 157-158,p 617-621,2012. [50] Lu,Shouwei; Feng,Huihua; Shang,Jiao; Zuo,Zhengxing. Prediction of structural acoustic radiation for compressor considering airflow pulsed load. SAE Technical Papers,2011,SAE 2011 Noise and Vibration Conference and Exhibition,NVC 2011. [51] Yuan,Chenheng; Feng,Huihua; Li,Yanxiao; Zuo,Zhengxing. Structural parameters matching design for free-piston linear alternator. Journal of Xi'an Jiaotong University,v 48,n 7,p 41-45+52,July 2014. [52] Dong,Hong-Quan; Feng,Hui-Hua; Wang,Yan-Xia; Xu,Da-Tao. Multi-field coupling modeling and analysis of cylinder liner deformation. Transactions of CSICE (Chinese Society for Internal Combustion Engines),v 32,n 3,p 276-282,May 2014. [53] Lu,Shou Wei; Feng,Hui Hua; Zuo,Zheng Xing; Yue,Feng Lai. A CAE approach for pretest analysis of vehicle body frame vibration test. Applied Mechanics and Materials,v 52-54,p 1369-1374,2011. [54] Feng,Hui-Hua; Zuo,Zheng-Xing; Liao,Ri-Dong; Ma,Chao-Chen. Outer sound field simulation of a diesel engine based on coupled BEM/FEM method. Transactions of CSICE (Chinese Society for Internal Combustion Engines),v 22,n 2,p 155-161,March 2004. [55] Feng,Hui-Hua; Zuo,Zheng-Xing; Liao,Ri-Dong; Zhang,Ru-Hua. Modal test/calculation correlation study on the lower crankcase of high-duty diesel engine Source. Journal of Beijing Institute of Technology,v 13,n 1,p 58-62,March 2004. [56] Sun,Peng-Wen; Zuo,Zheng-Xing; Liao,Ri-Dong; Feng,Hui-Hua. Analysis and design of model base for power transmission simulation system. Journal of System Simulation,v 16,n 8,p 1689,August 2004. [57] Jiang,Yuanguang; Zuo,Zhengxing; Feng,Huihua; Sun,Pengwen. Research on modes of collaborative CAD based on I-DEAS. Computer Engineering,v 31,n 18,p 208-209+225,Sep 20 2005. [58] Shang,Jiao; Feng,Hui-Hua; Lu,Shou-Wei; Yang,Shi-Qiu. Simulation research on dynamic performance for gear pair of main gear box in transmission of a car. Journal of Vibration Engineering,v 23,n 6,p 665-669,December 2010. [59] Feng,Hui-Hua; Zuo,Zheng-Xing; Liao,Ri-Dong; Liu,Dong. Research on the modification technique on structural dynamic model of complex I.C.E. components. Transactions of CSICE (Chinese Society for Internal Combustion Engines),v 24,n 4,p 357-362,July 2006. [60] Jiang,Yuan-Guang; Zuo,Zheng-Xing; Liao,Ri-Dong; Feng,Hui-Hua; Sun,Peng-Wen. Research on data exchange in collaborative simulation. Transaction of Beijing Institute of Technology,v 25,n 6,p 475-478+494,June 2005. [61] Yao,Li-Min; Pu,Da-Yu; Feng,Hui-Hua. Evaluation on the structural-acoustic modification of internal combustion engines. Transaction of Beijing Institute of Technology,v 27,n 2,p 116-119+124,February 2007. [62] Pu,Da-Yu; Zuo,Zheng-Xing; Feng,Hui-Hua; Liu,Xiao. Investigation on absorptive material placement in air cleanerSource. Journal of Vibration and Shock,v 28,n 2,p 178-180+190,February 2009. [63] Xiang,Jian-Hua; Liao,Ri-Dong; Pu,Da-Yu; Feng,Hui-Hua. A study on partial coating damping layer for thin-wall box of internal combustion engine. Transaction of Beijing Institute of Technology,v 30,n 2,p 149-153,February.
- [64] Xin,Zhenfang; Mao,Jinlong; Zuo,Zhengxing; Feng,Huihua. The affection of spray time to the performance of the free piston engine. Proceedings-2010 International Conference on Digital Manufacturing and Automation,ICDMA 2010,v 2,p 617-620,2010.
- [65] Pu,Da-Yu; Liao,Ri-Dong; Zuo,Zheng-Xing; Feng,Hui-Hua. Finite element modeling and modal analysis of complicated structure with bolted joints. Journal of Beijing Institute of Technology,v 18,n 3,p 273-277,September 2009.
- [66] Feng,Hui-Hua; Liao,Ri-Dong; Zuo,Zheng-Xing. Research on structural radiating sound field of a diesel engine involving the influence of internal fluid domain Source. Transactions of CSICE (Chinese Society for Internal Combustion Engines),v 23,n 1,p 67-71,January 2005.
- [67] Zhang,Bao-Cheng; Zuo,Zheng-Xing; Feng,Hui-Hua; Liao,Ri-Dong. Research on structural acoustic radiation prediction for ICE based on ATV technology. Chinese Internal Combustion Engine Engineering,v 26,n 5,p 39-42,October 2005.
- [68] Feng,Hui-Hua; Zuo,Zheng-Xing; Liao,Ri-Dong; Long,Kai. Modal correlation based analysis on dynamic characters of a commercial semi-trailer's chassis frames. Journal of Beijing Institute of Technology,v 16,n 2,p 140-145,June 2007.
- [69] Sun,Pengwen; Zuo,Zhengxing; Feng,Huihua; Jiang,Yuanguang. Research and implementation on cooperative mechanism of distributed simulation. Computer Engineering,v 32,n 3,p 245-247,Feb 5 2006.
- [70] Feng,Huihua; Zuo,Zhengxing; Liao,Ridong; Zhang,Yushen. Finite element analysis on the dynamic characteristics of high efficient diesel. Acta Armamentarii,v 23,n 3,p 294,August 2002.
- [71] Zou,Wen-Sheng; Zuo,Zheng-Xing; Feng,Hui-Hua; Liao,Ri-Dong; Zhang,Hong-Guang. Herrmann method of analyzing structure design velocity field. Journal of Beijing Institute of Technology,v 10,n 1,p 93-100,March 2001.
- [72] Zou,Wen-Sheng; Zuo,Zheng-Xing; Feng,Hui-Hua; Liao,Ri-Dong. Application of the sub-model method in the engine strength analysis. Journal of Beijing Institute of Technology,v 10,n 3,p 260-265,September 2001.
- [73] Zuo,Z.X.; Feng,H.H.; Liao,R.D.; Zou,W.S. Applications of computer aided modeling techniques to complex ICE components. Journal of Beijing Institute of Technology,v 9,n 4,p 451-458,December 2000.
- Main Research Projects
- (1) Simulation and experiment of Free piston linear generator,sponsored by MIIT; (2) Modelling and testing of NVH problems of Internal Combustion Engine,sponsored by MIIT; (3) Acoustic contribution analysis and noise control of marine diesel engine,sponsored by China Shipbuilding Industry Company Limited.

## Achievements and Awards
- (1) National Defense Science and Technology Progress Award (2nd class Prize);
- (2) National Defense Science and Technology Progress Award (3rd class Prize);
- (3) 7th Lecturing Competence of Beijing (2nd class Prize).

## Professional Membership/Academic Appointments
- (1) Council member of Chinese Society for Engineering Education; (2) Member of expert committee of SAE-China NVH; (3) Invited member of editorial board of Transactions of CSICE (Chinese Society for Internal Combustion Engines); (4) Member of editorial board of Vehicle Engine.

## Source Pages
- page 1: https://me-english.bit.edu.cn/people/facultydept/energype2/xs6/b126153.htm
